# Electricity Energy Analyst

Developing an automated data pipeline system (ETL) by combining Apache Airflow for orchestration, Pandas for data transformation, and loading transformed data into a NeonDB database with PostgreSQL. Followed by data validation using Great Expectations.

This is a repository to showcase my data analytics skills and projects that i get during my studies using Python and Tableau

---

# Cases & Background
You work in a company for sustainable energy. You are asked to create a Data Warehouse, ETL, dashboardfor the company's analysis. Climate change is an urgent global challenge. To address it, the transition from fossil fuels to clean and renewable energy sources is crucial. Access to energy, especially electricity, is fundamental to social and economic development.

#### A. Dataset
The dataset used comes from Kaggle which can be accessed [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?p=bigquery-public-data&d=thelook_ecommerce).

#### B. SMART Framework
Before determining the table, column, or other things in the dataset that will be used for data analysis and visualization. First introduce and describe the problem to make it easier to do the analysis, create a problem statement and using the SMART method:
  - Problem Statement:Identify data on the level of electricity and the level of CO2 emissions in a country, to provide an overview of the amount of energy and the level of CO2 emissions produced by the country by analyzing data within 1 week
      + S: Want to identify the level of electricity generated in several countries, to get a clear picture of how much CO2 emissions are generated by those countries
      + M: Calculation of the level of electricity generated and the level of CO2 emissions in a country
      + A: Conduct data analysis on Access to electricity, GDP per capita, Electricity from fossil fuels, Electricity from nuclear, Electricity from renewables, Value CO2 Emission, and clean energy production produced by developing and developed countries
      + R: Focus identification on the level of electricity and population welfare
      + T: The results of this analysis will be completed within 1 week

#### C. Data Modeling
1. Create a data warehouse design along with details of the fact table and dimension table.

#### D. Extract


#### E. Transform



#### F. Load

